.\"                                      -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Dimitris Zlatanidis
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH Slpkg "8" "5 2014" "slpkg"
.SH NAME
slpkg - Utility for easy management packages in Slackware
.SH SYNOPSIS
  \fBusage: slpkg [-h] [-v] [-a script [source ...]] 
                  [-l all, sbo, slack, noarch] [-c sbo, slack [<upgrade> ...]]
                  [-s sbo, slack [<package> ...]] [-t] [-n] [-i  [...]]
                  [-u  [...]] [-o  [...]] [-r  [...]] [-f  [...]] [-d  [...]]\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBslpkg\fP is a terminal multitool in order to easy use Slackware packages.
.PP
It's a quick and easy way to manage your packages in slackware to a command.
.SH EXAMPLES
  \fB-h, --help            show this help message and exit\fP
  \fB-v, --verbose         print version and exit\fP
  \fB-a script [source ...]\fP
  \fB			           auto build packages\fP
  \fB-l all, sbo, slack, noarch\fP
  \fB                      list of installed packages\fP
  \fB-c sbo, slack [<upgrade> ...]\fp
  \fB                      check if your packages is up to date\fP
  \fB-s sbo, slack [<package> ...]\fP
  \fB                      download, build & install packages\fP
  \fB                      list of installed packages\fP
  \fB-t                    packages tracking dependencies from SBo\fP
  \fB-n                    view packages from SBo repositority\fP
  \fB-i  [ ...]            install binary packages\fP
  \fB-u  [ ...]            upgrade binary packages\fP
  \fB-o  [ ...]            reinstall binary packages\fP
  \fB-r  [ ...]            remove binary packages\fP
  \fB-f  [ ...]            view installed packages\fP
  \fB-d  [ ...]            display the contents of the packages\fP

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP
Print the version of program and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
The following commands are available.
.SS -a script source extra
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-a\fP <\fIscript\fP> <\fIsource\fP> <\fIextra sources\fP>
.PP
With this argument, build slackware package from source quickly and easy.
Support .tar.gz and .tar.bz2 slackbuilds archives.
.SS -l all, sbo, slack, noarch
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-l\fP <\fIall\fP> <\fIsbo\fP>
.PP
Four display options list, sbo, slack, noarch and all packages
items that are installed on the system.
.SS -c , sbo, slack [sbo, slack ...] check if your packages is up to date
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-c\fP <\fIsbo\fP> <\fIslack\fP> <\fIupgrade\fP>
.PP
Check your packages from Slackware official mirrors or from 
slackbuilds.org is up to date.
.SS -s , sbo, slack [sbo, slack ...] download, build and install package with all dependencies
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-s\fP <\fIsbo\fP> <\fIslack\fP> <\fIname of package\fP>
.PP
Installs packages from the repository slackbuilds.org automatically resolving all 
dependencies of the package. Also installs the official distribution Slackware 
packages.
.SS -t , tracking dependencies
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-t\fP <\fIname of package\fP>
.PP
Tracking all dependencies of that package.
The sequence shown is that you must follow to correctly install package.
.SS -n , find from SBo repositority
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-n\fP <\fIname of package\fP>
.PP
With this method you can find the SBo script that interests you through
the network. (www.slackbuilds.org)
.SS -i , install binary package
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-i\fP <\fIpackages.t?z\fP>
.PP
Installs single binary packages designed for use with the 
Slackware Linux distribution into your system.
.SS -u , install-upgrade package with new
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-u\fP <\fIpackages.t?z\fP>
.PP
Normally upgrade only upgrades packages that are already
installed on the system, and will skip any packages that do not
already have a version installed. 'Requires root privileges'
(like slackware command upgradepkg --install-new)
.SS -o , reinstall binary package
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-o\fP <\fIpackages.t?z\fP>
.PP
Upgradepkg usually skips packages if the exact same package
(matching name, version, arch, and build number) is already
installed on the system.'Requires root privileges' (like 
slackware command upgradepkg --reinstall)
.SS -r , remove packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-r\fP <\fIname of packages\fP>
.PP
Removes a previously installed Slackware package, while writing
a progress report to the standard output. A package may be 
specified either by the full package name (as you'd see listed in
/var/log/packages/), or by the base package name. If installed
packages with command 'slpkg -s sbo <package>' then write a file
in /var/log/slpkg/dep/ with all dependencies and it allows you  
can remove them all together. 'Requires root
privileges' (like slackware command removepkg)
.SS -f find packages
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-f\fP <\fIname of packages\fP>
.PP
Find if package allready installed or not.
.SS -d , display contents
\fBslpkg\fP \fB-d\fP <\fIname of packages\fP>
.PP
Display the contents of the package with all descriptions.
.SH HELP OPTION
Specifying the help option displays help for slpkg itself, or a
command.
.br
For example:
  \fBslpkg \-\-help\fP - display help for slpkg
.SH EXAMPLES


$ \fBslpkg -t brasero\fP
  Reading package lists...... Done
  
  +=========================
  | brasero dependencies :
  +=========================
  \\ 
   +---[ Tree of dependencies ]
   |
   --1: orc
   |
   --2: gstreamer1
   |
   --3: gst1-plugins-base
   |
   --4: gst1-plugins-bad
   |
   --5: libunique

$ \fBslpkg -s sbo brasero\fP
  Building dependency tree...... Done
  
  The following packages will be automatically installed or upgraded 
  with new version:
  
  +==============================================================================
  | Package                                 Version       Arch         Repository
  +==============================================================================
  Installing:
    brasero                                 3.11.3        x86_64       SBo
  Installing for dependencies:
    orc                                     0.4.19        x86_64       SBo
    gstreamer1                              1.2.2         x86_64       SBo
    gst1-plugins-base                       1.2.2         x86_64       SBo
    gst1-plugins-bad                        1.2.2         x86_64       SBo
    libunique                               1.1.6         x86_64       SBo

  Installing summary
  ===============================================================================
  Total 6 packages.
  2 packages will be installed, 3 allready installed and 1 packages
  will be upgraded.

  Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
  .
  .
  .
  +==============================================================================
  | Installing new package /tmp/brasero-3.11.3-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz
  +==============================================================================

  Verifying package brasero-3.11.3-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz.
  Installing package brasero-3.11.3-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz:
  PACKAGE DESCRIPTION:
  # brasero (CD/DVD burning application)
  #
  # Brasero is a application to burn CD/DVD for the Gnome Desktop. It is
  # designed to be as simple as possible and has some unique features to
  # enable users to create their discs easily and quickly.
  #
  # Homepage: http://projects.gnome.org/brasero
  #
  Executing install script for brasero-3.11.3-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz.
  Package brasero-3.11.3-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz installed.


$ \fBslpkg -c sbo upgrade\fP
  Reading package lists. Done

  These packages need upgrading:

  +==============================================================================
  | Package                             New version       Arch         Repository
  +==============================================================================
  Upgrading:
    six-1.7.1                           1.7.3             x86_64       SBo
    pysetuptools-3.4                    3.6               x86_64       SBo
    Jinja2-2.7.0                        2.7.2             x86_64       SBo
    pysed-0.3.0                         0.3.1             x86_64       SBo
    Pafy-0.3.56                         0.3.58            x86_64       SBo
    MarkupSafe-0.21                     0.23              x86_64       SBo
    pip-1.5.3                           1.5.6             x86_64       SBo
    colored-1.1.1                       1.1.4             x86_64       SBo

  Installing summary
  ===============================================================================
  Total 8 packages will be upgraded and 0 package will be installed.

  Would you like to upgrade [Y/n]?

$ \fBslpkg -c slack upgrade\fp
  Reading package lists....... Done

  Slackware64 v14.1 distribution is up to date

$ \fBslpkg -n termcolor\fP
  Reading package lists. Done

  +==============================================================================
  | Package termcolor --> http://slackbuilds.org/repository/14.1/python/termcolor/
  +==============================================================================
  | SlackBuild : termcolor.tar.gz
  | Source : termcolor-1.1.0.tar.gz
  | Requirements :
  +===============================================================================
   README               View the README file
   SlackBuild           View the SlackBuild file
   Info                 View the Info file
   Download             Download this package
   Build                Download and build this package
   Install              Download/Build/Install

  _

  Two files termcolor.tar.gz and termcolor-1.1.0.tar.gz
  must be in the same directory.

$ \fBslpkg -a termcolor.tar.gz termcolor-1.1.0.tar.gz\fP

  Slackware package /tmp/termcolor-1.1.0-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz created.

$ \fBslpkg -u /tmp/termcolor-1.1.0-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz\fP

  Installing new package ./termcolor-1.1.0-x86_64-1_SBo.tgz

$ \fBslpkg -r termcolor yetris\fP
  
  Packages with name matching [ termcolor, yetris ]
  
  [ delete ] -- > termcolor-1.1.0-x86_64-1_SBo
  No such package yetris: Can't find

  Are you sure to remove 1 package(s) [Y/y]
    
  Package: termcolor-1.1.0-x86_64-1_SBo
  Package: yetris-2.0.1-x86_64-1_SBo
          Removing...

  Package termcolor removed

$ \fBslpkg -f termcolor\fP

  Packages with name matching [ termcolor ]
  
  No such package termcolor: Can't find

$ \fBslpkg -d termcolor\fP

  No such package termcolor: Can't dislpay

$ \fBslpkg -v\fP

  Version: x.x.x

.SH AUTHOR
Dimitris Zlatanidis <d.zlatanidis@gmail.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 Dimitris Zlatanidis

.SH SEE ALSO
installpkg(8), upgradepkg(8), removepkg(8), pkgtool(8), slackpkg(8) 
